### Tollywood film industry.

Telugu cinema, also known as Tollywood, is the segment of Indian cinema dedicated to the production of motion pictures in the Telugu language, widely spoken in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Telugu cinema is based in Film Nagar, a neighbourhood of Hyderabad, Telangana. The nickname Tollywood is a portmanteau of the words Telugu and Hollywood. In 2021, it has emerged as the largest film industry in India in terms of box-office.

***Nandamuri Taraka Rama Rao*** **(28 May 1923 – 18 January 1996), popularly known as NTR, was an Indian actor, filmmaker and politician who served as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh for seven years over three terms. He starred in over 300 films, predominantly in Telugu cinema, and was referred to as Viswa Vikhyatha Nata Sarwa Bhouma (transl. World's famous emperor of acting). He received three National Film Awards for co-producing Thodu Dongalu (1954) and Seetharama Kalyanam (1960) under National Art Theater, Madras. He was awarded the Padma Shri by the Government of India in 1968, recognizing his contribution to Indian cinema.He starred in such films as Patala Bhairavi (1951), which premiered at the first India International Film Festival, held in Mumbai on 24 January 1952, Malliswari (1951), premiered at Asia Pacific Film Festival, the enduring classics Mayabazar (1957) and Nartanasala (1963), featured at an Afro-Asian film festival that was held in Jakarta, Indonesia. All the four films were included in CNN-IBN's list of "Hundred greatest Indian films of all time"**

Since 1909, filmmaker Raghupathi Venkaiah Naidu was involved in producing short films and travelling to different regions in Asia to promote film work. In 1921, he produced the silent film, Bhishma Pratigna. He is cited as the father of Telugu cinema. In 1933, East India Film Company has produced its first Indian film, Savitri in Telugu. The film was based on a popular stage play by Mylavaram Bala Bharathi Samajam, directed by father of the "Telugu theatre Movement" Chittajallu Pullaiah and cast stage actors Vemuri Gaggaiah and Dasari Ramathilakam as "Yama" and "Savithri" respectively. The film was shot with a budget of estimated ₹1 million (US$13,000) in Calcutta. It received an honorary diploma at the 2nd Venice International Film Festival. Pathala Bhairavi (1951) was the only South Indian film screened at the first India International Film Festival. Pathala Bhairavi (1951), Malliswari (1951), Devadasu (1953), Mayabazar (1957), Nartanasala (1963), Maro Charitra (1978), Maa Bhoomi (1979), Sankarabharanam (1980), Sagara Sangamam (1983), and Siva (1989), have been showcased among CNN-IBN's 100 Greatest Indian Films of All Time.

Parallel's such as B. Narsing Rao's ethnographic film Maa Ooru won the 1992 Hungarian Visual Arts "Main Prize – Media Wave Award". K. N. T. Sastry's Thilaadanam received "New Currents Award" at the 7th Busan International Film Festival. K. Viswanath's Swati Mutyam was India's official entry to the 59th Academy Awards. Rajnesh Domalpalli's Vanaja was nominated for the Best First Feature and Best Cinematography awards at the "23rd American Independent Spirit Awards". S. S. Rajamouli's epic film Baahubali: The Beginning, was nominated for "42nd American Saturn Award for Best Fantasy Film." The second installment, The Conclusion is the only Indian film to receive the "Best International Film" at the "44th American Saturn Awards". Produced by Tollywood studio Arka Media Works, it is the highest grossing Indian film of all time within India.

[HOLLYWOODFilm](HOLLYWOODFilm.md)